# IS477-Sagi & Kidwell & Shafer

Our team for the IS 477 Project is Pranathi Sagi, the owner of the repository, Thea Kidwell, and Charlotte Shafer.

**Overview:** In the digital age, media is becoming more varied between both digital media and traditional, physical objects. There is more digital media available than ever before. Due to this increase in digital media, art is easier to create and distribute. This poses an interesting opportunity for museums to incorporate digital media into their catalogues, blending traditional art curation methods with contemporary data archival practices. Our overall goal for this project is to analyze the historical and current practices of the National Art Museum to gain a better understanding of the trends in art curation practices in the United States. We will integrate several datasets provided by the National Art Museum and analyze them using SQL.

**Team:** The three of us worked together to draft a project plan and decide on research questions. Once we chose the dataset we wanted to use, we divided it among each group member equally and decided our responsibilities would be to analyze the CSV files and clean them up for easier use when necessary. We have each made the commitment to each other that we will meet up multiple times outside of class to work on this project together. 

Pranathi is focusing on the Objects CSV and text data, specifically looking at each of the artworks, their publication dates in the museum, and what specific collections they come from. This information about each of the unique artworks being represented in the gallery, in addition to the collections they belong to, helps us get an in-depth understanding of ways we can answer our research questions when connecting older and modern works of art in this museum. This also helps us answer our first research question when it comes to analyzing the relationship between these artworks that are digital compared to traditional, to help us answer the discrepancies between both of these. Thea will focus on the constituents and objects_constituents files. Charlotte will focus on the Media_items and Media_relationships files, working with Pranathi to integrate data on media objects with the overall Objects dataset.

**Research or Business Question(s):**
There are several research questions that we will focus on to address our overall project goal: analyzing the historical and current practices of the National Art Museum to gain a better understanding of the trends in art curation practices in the United States.
- Does the National Art Museum use data management and storage techniques that allow for the preservation and accessibility of digital objects?
- What is the difference between how digital and traditional media in the National Art Museum is treated? Are there more digital items or traditional items? 
- We want to know what the relationship is between older, traditional works of art and modern works at the National Art Museum in terms of what region they come from and the artist who made them.

**Datasets:** The datasets our group chose to work with are the [Objects CSV]([URL](https://github.com/NationalGalleryOfArt/opendata/blob/main/data/objects.csv)), [Constituents CSV](https://github.com/NationalGalleryOfArt/opendata/blob/main/data/constituents.csv), [Constituents_objects CSV](https://github.com/NationalGalleryOfArt/opendata/blob/main/data/objects_constituents.csv), [Objects_text_entries CSV](https://github.com/NationalGalleryOfArt/opendata/blob/main/data/objects_text_entries.csv), [Media CSV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NationalGalleryOfArt/opendata/refs/heads/main/data/media_items.csv), and [Media_relationships CSV](https://github.com/NationalGalleryOfArt/opendata/blob/main/data/media_relationships.csv) from the National Art Museum’s [open data repository](https://github.com/NationalGalleryOfArt/opendata) on GitHub. We chose these specific datasets because the Objects dataset displays key object attributes such as the title of the artwork, display date, and start and end year of display in the museum. The Constituents dataset contains field information about each of the constituents of these artworks, which includes both artists and other contributors to the museum, such as donors. The objects_constituents dataset connects each of the unique artworks to the constituents that were involved in its creation or donation. Similarly, the Objects_text_entries dataset connects to the Objects dataset, providing further information about the artworks. The Media_items dataset contains information about digital media included in the National Art Museum’s catalog, which connects to the Object dataset through the Media_relationships junction table. The National Gallery of Art provides a relational diagram in their GitHub repository in which the relationships between entities are shown visually. Including datasets focused on both traditional and digital media objects, as well as their creators, will enable us to address our primary research questions.

**Timeline**: Our group had the first project milestone done a couple of days before it was due. We will have the second project milestone, this project report, submitted by the due date. We will work on an interim status report together in person and have it submitted by the due date. Regarding the datasets we each selected, we will check in with each other around this milestone and discuss what we have found, and ask for help if necessary. We will work on our final project multiple times together throughout the rest of the time frame and submit it by the due date as well. 

**Constraints:** One constraint is that the repository we chose to focus on is being updated constantly, and therefore has shifting data that we will have to account for while doing this project. While doing this project, we also have to ensure we follow the ethical guidelines laid out by the National Art Museum. Specifically, we must make sure we do not imply in our work that the museum officially endorses us or whatever findings we may have. One constraint is that the objects present in the museum tend to be more Eurocentric, and therefore, our analysis will be reflective of trends in that area and not globally. A focus on Western art means that a significant cultural presence of other countries is missing in our research. 

**Gaps:** One gap we have in our data is a lack of price records. We have records of donations in the constituents CSV, but no record of how much the objects cost. This raises some concerns because without accounting for this price record information, it makes it harder for us to measure the economic influences on the trends we are focusing on for this project. Another gap in our research is the fact that we are only pulling data from one museum. This could function as a constraint, as well, given that we are interested in art curation practices in the United States more generally. To fully answer our research questions, we would have to pull information from multiple different museums. Finally, our group needs additional input from the course staff on our research questions and whether they satisfy the requirements for this project. We would also like to ask the course staff if there are any other relationships we should explore or analyze with the CSV files. 
